Autonomous Vehicles
What does it do?
An autonomous vehicle can be any vehicle that is capable of sensing its own environment and drive without human operation meaning there doesn’t even have to be a passenger in the car. There is also a difference between automated and autonomous vehicles. Automated vehicles take instructions and will not go beyond that whereas an autonomous vehicle can fully think for itself so if it decides to drive somewhere without human instructions it can.
There are currently many reasons why autonomous vehicles haven’t been released to the public as of yet however they are still being developed and tested to ensure the best results. Companies such as Alphabet (Google’s parent company), Tesla, BMW, Audi, Amazon, Uber and plenty more are all working towards a future for autonomous vehicles. These vehicles have many different detection mechanisms to assist the car becoming aware of its surroundings.
The current methods of the vehicle awareness is using Radar and or Lidar as some companies progress choosing one or both of these mechanisms in the combination with artificial intelligence and driving experience. These vehicles gain experience by driving in the real world and in a simulated reality over millions of miles making them more experienced than humans however they still had to learn to drive which could have taken a long time especially if they didn’t have the option to create a simulated reality for their vehicles.
Developing autonomous vehicles can be quite challenging due to many implications such as the type of awareness the vehicle manufacturer is going to implement since Lidar is an expensive option and can interfere with other autonomous vehicles on the road while radio frequencies can be a better alternative if there is enough frequency range to communicate with all the vehicles which is why 5G radio frequencies will be a very good advancement towards the future to support technology advancements that may have been restricted. The type of weather can also have an impact on the use of autonomous vehicles if they are unable to detect the road and drive to limiting awareness conditions, for example if the road was covered in snow there may be no way the vehicle to continue driving since it doesn’t know where the road is. Road regulations in Australia will be quiet strict on the future vehicles as they are only preparing to automated vehicles and no mention of autonomous vehicles unlike the United States who have been welcoming the future advancements while staying political about the matter. Another hurdle autonomous vehicles need to leap over is artificial intelligence vs emotional intelligence in being able to make decisions based on instinctive behaviour that technology cannot comprehend currently to a capable extent.
Benefits of autonomous vehicles are beyond current circumstances with the manually operated vehicles used by society today. During the first major COVID-19 outbreak, everyone had the chance to notice pollution levels had lowered especially in Hong Kong due to planes not flying and other transportation methods reduced. A prediction made with the rise of autonomous vehicles all being electric will be an outstanding 80% reduction in urban CO2 emissions on a global scale which will positively impact the earth and its beings.
The current stage of autonomous vehicles is not anywhere near the prediction that was made five years ago however there have been a lot of advancements towards the technology that will contribute in making vehicle autonomy a reality. Further development is necessary to provide a vehicle that is safe enough to be on the road and have passengers, smart enough for decision making and intelligent to perform tasks that require critical thinking. A lot of these advancements may contribute to other technology advancements in the future such as better performing artificial intelligence, Sci-Fi like transportation as seen in movies and overall being more ecofriendly.
When will they be launched and why.
Automated vehicles could be another ten years away with the current progression made in the field however this is just an assumption and autonomy vehicles could be a further ten years away so around the year 2040 as artificial intelligence should be much more advance, giving time now for computer scientist, engineers and other fields to develop the technology in a popular and growing industry that will revolutionise the world and will keep on continuing until civilisation reaches a plateau. Overall the technology advancements will take a fair amount of time but it is good to know companies have already been working towards vehicle autonomy for near two decades now so they should be close to reaching a breakthrough that will give them the answers they need to release the vehicles publicly as most of the time the vehicles are on private property continually being tested.
What is the likely impact? 
Are people going to use these cars? What else will they be driving?
Autonomous cars are the main goal for industry leading companies in the motor and computer sectors and once they have been achieved to a satisfactory level the next step is to engineer trucks, motorbikes, boats, helicopters and other transportation. Conventional cars today will be the old and electric cars will be the new with the main benefits being they are faster, cheaper and more durable than any car before. Vehicle safety will increase by a large number with the car having automated safety features that will be able to calculate what to do next. Traffic congestion levels will decrease while freeing up parking lots since to call your car to pick you up will only require download the cars manufactures app.
What purposes will these cars serve and in which industries.
People who can afford these vehicles will definitely choose them over the motorised vehicles of today with the cars being so advanced and all it’s features being very futuristic and more convenient for the owner. Companies that pay truck drivers will choose autonomy in the future with the potential to save money and delivery will be faster with the driver not needing to have any lunch break or a sleep overnight. The advantages of autonomous vehicles will carry over to plenty of industries leading the way and encouraging the robotics field to replace many working roles.
How will these vehicles help? 
How will this affect you?
Will they be affordable?

Electric cars are the future for society and to encourage usage they will be affordable and competitive allowing the majority of people being able to purchase them however the autonomous vehicles may be slightly more expensive with it having more features than a standard electric and automated vehicle. Traffic congestions will happen less frequently meaning more people will be on time for work as the cars will be able to calculate travel time and less people will be driving slow as cars will know the speed limits and will adjust accordingly. If someone doesn’t own a car than they can order Uber Autonomy and be chauffeured to their destination.
More people will be living a luxurious lifestyle with better built cars and can be doing their work or study while travelling which will increase productivity for the majority of society.




References
https://www.synopsys.com/automotive/what-is-autonomous-car.html
https://www.cbinsights.com/research/autonomous-driverless-vehicles-corporations-list/
https://www.mes-insights.com/5-top-autonomous-vehicle-companies-to-watch-in-2020-a-910825/
https://www.infrastructure.gov.au/transport/automatedvehicles/index.aspx
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41558-020-0797-x
https://www.hindawi.com/journals/jat/2018/6135183/
https://www.mercedes-benz.com.au/passengercars/experience/mercedes-me-magazine/performance/articles/how-autonomous-driving-could-change-lives/story-content.module.html
https://www.forbes.com/sites/uhenergy/2019/05/21/self-driving-automobiles-how-soon-and-how-much/#e2a771438bd2
