Autonomous Vehicles
What does it do?
An autonomous vehicle can be any vehicle that is capable of sensing its own environment and drive without human operation meaning there doesn’t even have to be a passenger in the car. There is also a difference between automated and autonomous vehicles. Automated vehicles take instructions and will not go beyond that whereas an autonomous vehicle can fully think for itself so if it decides to drive somewhere without human instructions it can.
There are currently many reasons why autonomous vehicles haven’t been released to the public as of yet however they are still being developed and tested to ensure the best results. Companies such as Alphabet (Google’s parent company), Tesla, BMW, Audi, Amazon, Uber and plenty more are all working towards a future for autonomous vehicles. These vehicles have many different detection mechanisms to assist the car becoming aware of its surroundings.
The current methods of the vehicle awareness is using Radar and or Lidar as some companies progress choosing one or both of these mechanisms in the combination with artificial intelligence and driving experience. These vehicles gain experience by driving in the real world and in a simulated reality over millions of miles making them more experienced than humans however they still had to learn to drive which could have taken a long time especially if they didn’t have the option to create a simulated reality for their vehicles.
Developing autonomous vehicles can be quite challenging due to many implications such as the type of awareness the vehicle manufacturer is going to implement since Lidar is an expensive option and can interfere with other autonomous vehicles on the road while radio frequencies can be a better alternative if there is enough frequency range to communicate with all the vehicles which is why 5G radio frequencies will be a very good advancement towards the future to support technology advancements that may have been restricted. The type of weather can also have an impact on the use of autonomous vehicles if they are unable to detect the road and drive to limiting awareness conditions, for example if the road was covered in snow there may be no way the vehicle to continue driving since it doesn’t know where the road is. Road regulations in Australia will be quiet strict on the future vehicles as they are only preparing to automated vehicles and no mention of autonomous vehicles unlike the United States who have been welcoming the future advancements while staying political about the matter. Another hurdle autonomous vehicles need to leap over is artificial intelligence vs emotional intelligence in being able to make decisions based on instinctive behaviour that technology cannot comprehend currently to a capable extent.
