What does it do?
Machine learning is a program that has been instructed to learn using mathematical equations. There are different types of machine learning such as unsupervised learning, supervised learning, semi supervised learning, reinforcement learning. Each type of machine learning technique uses a different or a combination of algorithms. Machine learning is actually a subset of artificial intelligence and without the mechanic of machine learning, creating an artificial intelligence becomes increasingly more difficult.
As machine learning is a subset of AI, deep learning is a subset of machine learning. Deep learning is the process of a bunch of nodes (also known as neurons) that take input and output. Each node has weights that when processing data, the neurons can have influence the outputs. This being said, a lot of machine learning has to be configured after trial and error.
Programs that make decisions based on machine learning continually evolve and become superior than traditional programs that have been coded to complete tasks statically. Since machine learning has made a lot of progress over the decades, it has been implemented into the daily lives of billions without the realisation or understanding from its users.
Big companies now use machine learning in order to evolve and be at the top of their game. YouTube for example uses machine learning to read videos both audio and visuals and compares the content uploaded to match suitable videos for its users. This is extremely effective when providing the user suitable content that they will much more likely be interested in and watch it for longer than other videos. Previously YouTube would’ve used video titles and video ratings alone when making recommendations which is not as effective.
Facebook also uses machine learning a lot and due to Instagram being owned by Facebook they share some functionalities. Facebook has the ability to read your photos and understand who and or what is in the photos which is helpful when tagging people, the text you post can be meaningfully understood using a deep learning engine called DeepText. The advertisements displayed on Facebook and Instagram are laser targeted using machine learning when prior the advertisers had to manually select who they want to target but now Facebook know if you like to shop, follow accounts and webpages, if you like funny videos and so much more. The data used Facebook uses isn’t just from Facebook themselves, it is provided from other data collection companies as well to accurately profile you with their deep learning engine which shows how powerful data can be when combined with machine learning. Facebook can also translate languages well without errors using machine learning, unlike other popular automated translation services a decade ago.
Machine learning is capable of much more than just interacting with the cyber world. NASA has held a competition that involved machine learning to design and construct a strong, efficient and safe home made out of dirt from Mars. Tesla has fully self-driving cars that uses machine learning, and there are many other scenarios where machine learning can be implemented. It is now realistic to do nearly anything with machine learning, in particular subjects it can become smarter than humans in a short period of time due to hardware like graphic cards that are built specifically with artificial intelligence in mind.
What is the likely impact?
The next few years will hold amazing changes to society through the use of machine learning. Since the COVID-19 outbreak there have been labs using machine learning to predict outbreaks and finding a cure. Agriculture is also another field being changed by machine learning with a more efficient and effective way of growing food. It isn’t too farfetched to say homes will be power by machine learning very soon, assisting the occupants with tasks  such as turning a television on when it predicts you’re going to watching television or knows when you are to be woken up and going to sleep.
Machine learning will change the world unlike anyone would think because it’s not people that will be thinking as much as machines will be. Machines will power advancements to society and humans will most likely just be designing and maintaining the machines until that is no longer needed. Humans will quickly advance the Kardashev scale by having machines do a lot of problem solving it takes to reach the next level. Jobs will quickly be replaced by computers and there will be new jobs generated.
